Stay aware of global trends

We whip through trends at blazing speeds. It’s hard to get ahead of the trends in your hometown, much less in a new country.

Keep your ear to the ground and watch trends so that you can make adjustments to your master plan as necessary.

12. Take advantage of stable markets

If the fast-moving trends make you nervous, skip them.

There’s no rule saying you have to jump into a fast moving river. Stick with something a bit more timeless like fitness, business, or travel. It’s always a great idea to find a unique corner of a well-established market.

Making global work
You don’t need to start from scratch when you’re constructing your master plan for global sales.

Nielsen and other research firms like JP Morgan have already done a lot of the legwork for you:

Internet consumers from around the globe are buying everything from books to sports memorabilia
The most popular items sold online include books, clothing, shoes, accessories, videos, DVDs, games, travel, music, electronics, cosmetics, and nutrition items
Global e-commerce revenues are expected to grow by 19 percent in 2012
$681 billion was spent globally in 2011 — how much of that did you take home?
Of that, only $187 billion was spent in the United States, leaving $493 billion for the rest of the global market
It’s anticipated that global ecommerce spending will grow to $963 billion by 2013
High-income families shop online most frequently
Inspiring, right?

You’re probably feeling the urge to act quickly. The online world moves fast, and timing is important.

Fortunately, the world is a big place. And there’s still plenty of room for those looking to expand into new markets.

A great time to start an international business
Online shoppers prefer to buy from familiar sites.

60 percent buy from the same site repeatedly. Kudos to you if it’s your site they like.

As Bruce Paul explained,

This shows the importance of capturing the tens of millions of new online shoppers as they make their first purchases on the internet. If shopping sites can capture them early, and create a positive shopping experience, they will likely capture their loyalty and their money.

JP Morgan forecasts that the global ecommerce market will grow at 12.4 percent from 2010 to 2013.

The opportunity is huge, even with new recession fears looming.